How to Set Up Minikube on Ubuntu with Docker Driver
----------------------------------------------------------
If you want to explore Kubernetes on your local machine, Minikube is the perfect solution. It allows you to run a single-node Kubernetes cluster, making it ideal for development and testing. In this blog, we will walk through the step-by-step process of setting up Minikube on an Ubuntu system using Docker as the driver.

---

Prerequisites:
Before you begin, make sure you have:
Ubuntu installed on your machine.
Docker installed and running. (If not, you can install Docker from here).
kubectl installed to interact with the Kubernetes cluster. (Install it using: sudo apt install -y kubectl)

---

Step 1: Download the Minikube Package
To get started, download the latest Minikube binary using the curl command:
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/latest/minikube-linux-amd64
This command fetches the latest Minikube release for Linux.

---

Step 2: Install Minikube
After downloading, install Minikube by moving the binary to your system's executable path:
sudo install minikube-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/minikube
This command ensures you can run minikube from any terminal window.

---

Step 3: Verify the Installation
Check if Minikube is installed correctly by verifying the version:
minikube version
You should see the installed version of Minikube displayed in the terminal.

---

Step 4: Start Minikube with Docker Driver
Start Minikube using Docker as the driver:
minikube start --driver=docker
This command initializes a single-node Kubernetes cluster using Docker as the underlying container runtime.

---

Step 5: Check Minikube Status
Verify if Minikube is running successfully:
minikube status
You should see output indicating that the cluster components are running.

---

Step 6: Display Cluster Information
Use kubectl to check cluster details:
kubectl cluster-info
This will show URLs to access the Kubernetes control plane and other services.

---

Step 7: View Kubernetes Configuration
To inspect your Kubernetes configuration, run:
kubectl config view
This command displays the current contexts and configurations.

---

Step 8: Check Running Nodes
Ensure that the Kubernetes node is active:
kubectl get nodes
You should see a single node with the status Ready.

---

Step 9: Check Running Pods
To view the pods running in the cluster:
kubectl get pods
Initially, you might not see any pods unless you deploy applications.

---

Step 10: Launch the Minikube Dashboard
Minikube provides a handy dashboard to manage resources visually:
minikube dashboard
This command opens the Kubernetes dashboard in your default browser. (If you use Chrome, it will open in a new tab.)

---

Conclusion:
Congratulations! 🎉 You've successfully set up Minikube on Ubuntu using Docker as the driver. With this setup, you can now start experimenting with Kubernetes resources like deployments, services, and pods in a local environment.
If you found this guide helpful, don't forget to share it with others who might benefit.🚀

---
